Burning Man 2017 On-Playa Fix-It Items
--------------------------------------

[X]
TriObelisk sends shit velocity values when wheel spins counterclockwise.  The
oscillation between positive and negative values is what causes the flashing
that people like.

If this is fixed, maybe modify the sparkle pattern to accept hue and
saturation inputs, and assign the TriObelisk wheels accordingly.



[N]
Contort-O-Matic pads aren't working--except for the one green section at the
top of the cone.

Can't fix.  We think moisture got absorbed into the foam pad and messed up its
dialectric characteristics.



[X]
The entire cone occasionally goes black for a second or so.  This may be due to
a problem with OPC message delivery.

Update:  It appears that shutoff mode is being entered sporadically for one
second.

Fixed.  Thou shalt not call a non-re-entrant time function from multiple
threads.



[X]
Four-Play-4-3 (closes to TriObelisk, assigned to horizontal rings) red, green,
and width wheels are not working well.

Magnets were missing from first wheel.  Wire was broken on connector that plugs
into widget controller board.  One Hall effect sensor of Wheel #2 (#3?) had been
pulled back into the tube.



[X]
Clear shutoff and quiescent period lists when reinitializing.



[X]
Maybe have pump's pattern change to green after explosion.  Would still show
pressure, but would not explode while green.  Reset to red after pressure
decreases below lower threshold.



[X]
Ironing board was destroyed the night before (or day when) we went out to
install the keyboard.  Shit.

DLaw fixed it up nice.  Unfortunately, the dust killed more than half the keys
a day after we placed the widget.



[X]
Pump needs to be more robust.

Pump's leather cup was inverted on Monday night (Tuesday ~3 AM, actually), and
the top cap was loose.  Fixed during Joule visit.

Pump box was completely detatched from the ground Monday morning.  People are
brutalizing the thing.  We need to make it stronger and maybe write on it "Pump
gently, not like I pump your mother."

Saturday:  Pump is done.  The top cap's hole is worn oval, and the shaft has
come unscrewed from the cup.



[X]
More than half of the keys of Schroeder's Plaything no longer work.  The
whiteouts the day after we placed the keyboard are the likely cause.  (The
keyboard sat outside at camp for almost a week with no problem.)

